docs/v1.0/en/tutorials/adding-validators.md, before:

# Adding a Validator

## Introduction

The [Primary Network](../core-concepts/overview.md#what-are-subnets) is inherent to the Avalanche network and validates Avalanche's [built-in blockchains.](../core-concepts/overview.md#built-in-blockchains)

In this tutorial we'll add a node to the Primary Network and to a subnet on the Avalanche Network.

The [Platform Chain (P-Chain)](../core-concepts/overview.md#the-p-chain) manages metadata about the Avalanche network.
This includes tracking which nodes are in which Subnets, which blockchains exist and which Subnets are validating which blockchains.
To add a validator we'll issue transactions to the P-Chain.

Note that once you issue the transaction to add a node as a validator, there is no way to change the parameters.
**You can't unstake early or change the stake amount, node ID or reward address.**
Please make sure you're using the correct values in the API calls below.
If you're not sure, ask for help on [Discord.](https://chat.avalabs.org)

## Requirements

We assume that you've already done the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) and are familiar with the [Avalanche Network's architecture.](../core-concepts/overview.md)
In this tutorial, we use [Avalanche's Postman collection](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-postman-collection) to help us make API calls.

In order to ensure your node is well-connected, make sure that your node can receive and send TCP traffic on the staking port (`9651` by default)
and that you started your node with command line argument `--public-ip=[YOUR NODE'S PUBLIC IP HERE]`.
Failing to do either of these may jeopardize your staking reward.

## Add a validator with the wallet

First, we show you how to add your node as a validator by using Avalanche's [web wallet](https://wallet.avax.network).

Get your node's ID by calling [`info.getNodeID`](../api/info.md#infogetnodeid):

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc":"2.0",
    "id"     :1,
    "method" :"info.getNodeID"
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/info
```

The response has your node's ID:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "nodeID": "NodeID-5mb46qkSBj81k9g9e4VFjGGSbaaSLFRzD"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

Open [the wallet](https://wallet.avax.network) and go the `Earn` tab. Choose `Add Validator`

![Fill in staking parameters](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/2.png)

Fill out the staking parameters. They are explained in more detail below.
When you've filled in all the staking parameters and double-checked them, click `Confirm`.
Make sure the staking period is at least 2 weeks, the delegation fee rate is at least 2%, and you're staking at least 2,000 AVAX.

![Confirm transaction](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/3.png)

You should see this success message and your balance should be updated.

![Success message](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/4.png)

Calling `platform.getPendingValidators` verifies that our transaction was accepted.

![Call getPendingValidators](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/5.png)

Go back to the `Earn` tab and click `Estimated Rewards`.

![Click estimated reward](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/6.png)

Once your validator's start time has passed, you will see the rewards it may earn, as well as its start time, end time and the percentage of its validation period that has passed.

![See validator](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/7.png)

That's it!

## Add a validator with API calls

We can also add a node to the validator set by making API calls to our node.
To add a node the Primary Network, we'll call [`platform.addValidator`](../api/platform.md#platformaddvalidator).

This method's signature is:

```go
platform.addValidator(
    {
        nodeID: string,
        startTime: int,
        endTime: int,
        stakeAmount: int,
        rewardAddress: string,
        changeAddr: string, (optional)
        delegationFeeRate: float,
        username: string,
        password: string
    }
) -> {txID: string}
```

Let's go through and examine these arguments.

`nodeID`

This is the node ID of the validator being added.
To get your node's ID, call [`info.getNodeID`:](../api/info.md#infogetnodeid)

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "info.getNodeID",
    "params":{},
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/info
```

The response has your node's ID:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "nodeID": "NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

`startTime` and `endTime`

When one issues a transaction to join the Primary Network they specify the time they will enter (start validating) and leave (stop validating.)
The minimum duration that one can validate the Primary Network is 24 hours, and the maximum duration is one year.
One can re-enter the Primary Network after leaving, it's just that the maximum *continuous* duration is one year.
`startTime` and `endTime` are the Unix times when your validator will start and stop validating the Primary Network, respectively. `startTime` must be in the future relative to the time the transaction is issued.

`stakeAmount`

In order to validate the Primary Network one must stake AVAX tokens.
This parameter defines the amount of AVAX staked.

`rewardAddress`

When a validator stops validating the Primary Network, they will receive a reward if they are sufficiently responsive and correct while they validated the Primary Network. These tokens are sent to `rewardAddress`. The original stake will be sent back to an address controlled by `username`.

A validator's stake is never slashed, regardless of their behavior; they will always receive their stake back when they're done validating.

`changeAddr`

Any change resulting from this transaction will be sent to this address.
You can leave this field empty; if you do, change will be sent to one of the addresses your user controls.

`delegationFeeRate`

Avalanche allows for delegation of stake. This parameter is the percent fee this validator charges when others delegate stake to them.
For example, if `delegationFeeRate` is `1.2345` and someone delegates to this validator, then when the delegation period is over, 1.2345% of the reward goes to the validator and the rest goes to the delegator.

`username` and `password`

These parameters are the username and password of the user that pays the transaction fee, provides the staked AVAX and to whom the staked AVAX will be returned.

Now let's issue the transaction. We use the shell command `date` to compute the Unix time 10 minutes and 30 days in the future to use as the values of `startTime` and `endTime`, respectively.
(Note: If you're on a Mac, replace  `$(date` with `$(gdate`. If you don't have `gdate` installed, do `brew install coreutils`.)
In this example we stake 2,000 AVAX (2 x 10<sup>12</sup> nAVAX).

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.addValidator",
    "params": {
        "nodeID":"NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
        "startTime":'$(date --date="10 minutes" +%s)',
        "endTime":'$(date --date="30 days" +%s)',
        "stakeAmount":2000000000000,
        "rewardAddress":"P-avax1d4wfwrfgu4dkkyq7dlhx0lt69y2hjkjeejnhca",
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u",
        "delegationFeeRate":10,
        "username":"USERNAME",
        "password":"PASSWORD"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response has the transaction ID, as well as the address the change went to.

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "txID": "6pb3mthunogehapzqmubmx6n38ii3lzytvdrxumovwkqftzls",
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

We can check the transaction's status by calling `platform.getTxStatus`:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getTxStatus",
    "params": {
        "txID":"6pb3mthunogehapzqmubmx6n38ii3lzytvdrxumovwkqftzls"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The status should be `Committed`, meaning the transaction was successful. We can call [`platform.getPendingValidators`](../api/platform.md#platformgetpendingvalidators) and see that the node is now in the pending validator set for the Primary Network:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getPendingValidators",
    "params": {},
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response should include the node we just added:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "validators": [
            {
                "nodeID": "NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
                "startTime": "1584021450",
                "endtime": "1584121156",
                "stakeAmount": "2000000000000",
            }
        ] 
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

When the time reaches `1584021450`, this node will start validating the Primary Network.
When it reaches `1584121156`, this node will stop validating the Primary Network.
The staked AVAX will be returned to an address controlled by `username`, and the rewards, if any, will be given to `rewardAddress`.

## Add a validator to a Subnet

Now let's add the same node to a subnet.
The following will make more sense if you've already done this [tutorial on creating a Subnet.](../tutorials/create-a-subnet.md)
Right now you can only add validators to subnets with API calls, not with the web wallet.

Suppose that the Subnet has ID `nTd2Q2nTLp8M9qv2VKHMdvYhtNWX7aTPa4SMEK7x7yJHbcWvr`, threshold 2, and that `username` holds at least 2 control keys.

To add the validator, we'll call API method `addSubnetValidator`. Its signature is:

```go
platform.addSubnetValidator(
    {
        nodeID: string,
        subnetID: string,
        startTime: int,
        endTime: int,
        weight: int,
        changeAddr: string, (optional)
        username: string,
        password: string
    }
) -> {txID: string}
```

Let's examine the parameters:

`nodeID`

This is the node ID of the validator being added to the subnet.
**This validator must validate the Primary Network for the entire duration that it validates this Subnet.**

`subnetID`

This is the ID of the subnet we're adding a validator to.

`startTime` and `endTime`

Similar to above, these are the Unix times that the validator will start and stop validating the subnet. `startTime` must be at or after the time that the validator starts validating the Primary Network, and `endTime` must be at or before the time that the validator stops validating the Primary Network.

`weight`

This is the validator's sampling weight for consensus. If the validator's weight is 1 and the cumulative weight of all validators in the subnet is 100, then this validator will be included in about 1 in every 100 samples during consensus.

`changeAddr`

Any change resulting from this transaction will be sent to this address.
You can leave this field empty; if you do, change will be sent to one of the addresses your user controls.

`username` and `password`

These parameters are the username and password of the user that pays the transaction fee. This user must hold a sufficient number of this Subnet's control keys in order to add a validator to this Subnet.

We use the shell command `date` to compute the Unix time 10 minutes and 30 days in the future to use as the values of `startTime` and `endTime`, respectively.
(Note: If you're on a Mac, replace  `$(date` with `$(gdate`. If you don't have `gdate` installed, do `brew install coreutils`.)

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.addSubnetValidator",
    "params": {
        "nodeID":"NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
        "subnetID":"nTd2Q2nTLp8M9qv2VKHMdvYhtNWX7aTPa4SMEK7x7yJHbcWvr",
        "startTime":'$(date --date="10 minutes" +%s)',
        "endTime":'$(date --date="30 days" +%s)',
        "weight":1,
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u",
        "username":"USERNAME",
        "password":"PASSWORD"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response has the transaction ID, as well as the address the change went to.

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "txID": "2exafyvRNSE5ehwjhafBVt6CTntot7DFjsZNcZ54GSxBbVLcCm",
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

We can check the transaction's status by calling `platform.getTxStatus`:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getTxStatus",
    "params": {
        "txID":"2exafyvRNSE5ehwjhafBVt6CTntot7DFjsZNcZ54GSxBbVLcCm"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The status should be `Committed`, meaning the transaction was successful. We can call [`platform.getPendingValidators`](../api/platform.md#platformgetpendingvalidators) and see that the node is now in the pending validator set for the Primary Network. This time, we specify the subnet ID:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getPendingValidators",
    "params": {"subnetID":"nTd2Q2nTLp8M9qv2VKHMdvYhtNWX7aTPa4SMEK7x7yJHbcWvr"},
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response should include the node we just added:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "validators": [
            {
                "nodeID": "NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
                "startTime":1584042912,
                "endTime":1584121156,
                "weight": "1"
            }
        ]
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

When the time reaches `1584042912`, this node will start validating this Subnet.
When it reaches `1584121156`, this node will stop validating this Subnet.

Commit message:

Add documentation for whitelisted subnets

docs/v1.0/en/tutorials/adding-validators.md, after:

# Adding a Validator

## Introduction

The [Primary Network](../core-concepts/overview.md#what-are-subnets) is inherent to the Avalanche network and validates Avalanche's [built-in blockchains.](../core-concepts/overview.md#built-in-blockchains)

In this tutorial we'll add a node to the Primary Network and to a subnet on the Avalanche Network.

The [Platform Chain (P-Chain)](../core-concepts/overview.md#the-p-chain) manages metadata about the Avalanche network.
This includes tracking which nodes are in which Subnets, which blockchains exist and which Subnets are validating which blockchains.
To add a validator we'll issue transactions to the P-Chain.

Note that once you issue the transaction to add a node as a validator, there is no way to change the parameters.
**You can't unstake early or change the stake amount, node ID or reward address.**
Please make sure you're using the correct values in the API calls below.
If you're not sure, ask for help on [Discord.](https://chat.avalabs.org)

## Requirements

We assume that you've already done the [quickstart guide](../quickstart.md) and are familiar with the [Avalanche Network's architecture.](../core-concepts/overview.md)
In this tutorial, we use [Avalanche's Postman collection](https://github.com/ava-labs/avalanche-postman-collection) to help us make API calls.

In order to ensure your node is well-connected, make sure that your node can receive and send TCP traffic on the staking port (`9651` by default)
and that you started your node with command line argument `--public-ip=[YOUR NODE'S PUBLIC IP HERE]`.
Failing to do either of these may jeopardize your staking reward.

## Add a validator with the wallet

First, we show you how to add your node as a validator by using Avalanche's [web wallet](https://wallet.avax.network).

Get your node's ID by calling [`info.getNodeID`](../api/info.md#infogetnodeid):

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc":"2.0",
    "id"     :1,
    "method" :"info.getNodeID"
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/info
```

The response has your node's ID:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "nodeID": "NodeID-5mb46qkSBj81k9g9e4VFjGGSbaaSLFRzD"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

Open [the wallet](https://wallet.avax.network) and go the `Earn` tab. Choose `Add Validator`

![Fill in staking parameters](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/2.png)

Fill out the staking parameters. They are explained in more detail below.
When you've filled in all the staking parameters and double-checked them, click `Confirm`.
Make sure the staking period is at least 2 weeks, the delegation fee rate is at least 2%, and you're staking at least 2,000 AVAX.

![Confirm transaction](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/3.png)

You should see this success message and your balance should be updated.

![Success message](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/4.png)

Calling `platform.getPendingValidators` verifies that our transaction was accepted.

![Call getPendingValidators](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/5.png)

Go back to the `Earn` tab and click `Estimated Rewards`.

![Click estimated reward](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/6.png)

Once your validator's start time has passed, you will see the rewards it may earn, as well as its start time, end time and the percentage of its validation period that has passed.

![See validator](../../../images/tutorials/adding-validators/7.png)

That's it!

## Add a validator with API calls

We can also add a node to the validator set by making API calls to our node.
To add a node the Primary Network, we'll call [`platform.addValidator`](../api/platform.md#platformaddvalidator).

This method's signature is:

```go
platform.addValidator(
    {
        nodeID: string,
        startTime: int,
        endTime: int,
        stakeAmount: int,
        rewardAddress: string,
        changeAddr: string, (optional)
        delegationFeeRate: float,
        username: string,
        password: string
    }
) -> {txID: string}
```

Let's go through and examine these arguments.

`nodeID`

This is the node ID of the validator being added.
To get your node's ID, call [`info.getNodeID`:](../api/info.md#infogetnodeid)

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "info.getNodeID",
    "params":{},
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/info
```

The response has your node's ID:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "nodeID": "NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

`startTime` and `endTime`

When one issues a transaction to join the Primary Network they specify the time they will enter (start validating) and leave (stop validating.)
The minimum duration that one can validate the Primary Network is 24 hours, and the maximum duration is one year.
One can re-enter the Primary Network after leaving, it's just that the maximum *continuous* duration is one year.
`startTime` and `endTime` are the Unix times when your validator will start and stop validating the Primary Network, respectively. `startTime` must be in the future relative to the time the transaction is issued.

`stakeAmount`

In order to validate the Primary Network one must stake AVAX tokens.
This parameter defines the amount of AVAX staked.

`rewardAddress`

When a validator stops validating the Primary Network, they will receive a reward if they are sufficiently responsive and correct while they validated the Primary Network. These tokens are sent to `rewardAddress`. The original stake will be sent back to an address controlled by `username`.

A validator's stake is never slashed, regardless of their behavior; they will always receive their stake back when they're done validating.

`changeAddr`

Any change resulting from this transaction will be sent to this address.
You can leave this field empty; if you do, change will be sent to one of the addresses your user controls.

`delegationFeeRate`

Avalanche allows for delegation of stake. This parameter is the percent fee this validator charges when others delegate stake to them.
For example, if `delegationFeeRate` is `1.2345` and someone delegates to this validator, then when the delegation period is over, 1.2345% of the reward goes to the validator and the rest goes to the delegator.

`username` and `password`

These parameters are the username and password of the user that pays the transaction fee, provides the staked AVAX and to whom the staked AVAX will be returned.

Now let's issue the transaction. We use the shell command `date` to compute the Unix time 10 minutes and 30 days in the future to use as the values of `startTime` and `endTime`, respectively.
(Note: If you're on a Mac, replace  `$(date` with `$(gdate`. If you don't have `gdate` installed, do `brew install coreutils`.)
In this example we stake 2,000 AVAX (2 x 10<sup>12</sup> nAVAX).

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.addValidator",
    "params": {
        "nodeID":"NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
        "startTime":'$(date --date="10 minutes" +%s)',
        "endTime":'$(date --date="30 days" +%s)',
        "stakeAmount":2000000000000,
        "rewardAddress":"P-avax1d4wfwrfgu4dkkyq7dlhx0lt69y2hjkjeejnhca",
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u",
        "delegationFeeRate":10,
        "username":"USERNAME",
        "password":"PASSWORD"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response has the transaction ID, as well as the address the change went to.

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "txID": "6pb3mthunogehapzqmubmx6n38ii3lzytvdrxumovwkqftzls",
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

We can check the transaction's status by calling `platform.getTxStatus`:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getTxStatus",
    "params": {
        "txID":"6pb3mthunogehapzqmubmx6n38ii3lzytvdrxumovwkqftzls"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The status should be `Committed`, meaning the transaction was successful. We can call [`platform.getPendingValidators`](../api/platform.md#platformgetpendingvalidators) and see that the node is now in the pending validator set for the Primary Network:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getPendingValidators",
    "params": {},
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response should include the node we just added:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "validators": [
            {
                "nodeID": "NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
                "startTime": "1584021450",
                "endtime": "1584121156",
                "stakeAmount": "2000000000000",
            }
        ] 
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

When the time reaches `1584021450`, this node will start validating the Primary Network.
When it reaches `1584121156`, this node will stop validating the Primary Network.
The staked AVAX will be returned to an address controlled by `username`, and the rewards, if any, will be given to `rewardAddress`.

## Adding a Subnet Validator

### Issuing a Subnet Validator Transaction

Now let's add the same node to a subnet.
The following will make more sense if you've already done this [tutorial on creating a Subnet.](../tutorials/create-a-subnet.md)
Right now you can only add validators to subnets with API calls, not with the web wallet.

Suppose that the Subnet has ID `nTd2Q2nTLp8M9qv2VKHMdvYhtNWX7aTPa4SMEK7x7yJHbcWvr`, threshold 2, and that `username` holds at least 2 control keys.

To add the validator, we'll call API method `addSubnetValidator`. Its signature is:

```go
platform.addSubnetValidator(
    {
        nodeID: string,
        subnetID: string,
        startTime: int,
        endTime: int,
        weight: int,
        changeAddr: string, (optional)
        username: string,
        password: string
    }
) -> {txID: string}
```

Let's examine the parameters:

`nodeID`

This is the node ID of the validator being added to the subnet.
**This validator must validate the Primary Network for the entire duration that it validates this Subnet.**

`subnetID`

This is the ID of the subnet we're adding a validator to.

`startTime` and `endTime`

Similar to above, these are the Unix times that the validator will start and stop validating the subnet. `startTime` must be at or after the time that the validator starts validating the Primary Network, and `endTime` must be at or before the time that the validator stops validating the Primary Network.

`weight`

This is the validator's sampling weight for consensus. If the validator's weight is 1 and the cumulative weight of all validators in the subnet is 100, then this validator will be included in about 1 in every 100 samples during consensus.

`changeAddr`

Any change resulting from this transaction will be sent to this address.
You can leave this field empty; if you do, change will be sent to one of the addresses your user controls.

`username` and `password`

These parameters are the username and password of the user that pays the transaction fee. This user must hold a sufficient number of this Subnet's control keys in order to add a validator to this Subnet.

We use the shell command `date` to compute the Unix time 10 minutes and 30 days in the future to use as the values of `startTime` and `endTime`, respectively.
(Note: If you're on a Mac, replace  `$(date` with `$(gdate`. If you don't have `gdate` installed, do `brew install coreutils`.)

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.addSubnetValidator",
    "params": {
        "nodeID":"NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
        "subnetID":"nTd2Q2nTLp8M9qv2VKHMdvYhtNWX7aTPa4SMEK7x7yJHbcWvr",
        "startTime":'$(date --date="10 minutes" +%s)',
        "endTime":'$(date --date="30 days" +%s)',
        "weight":1,
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u",
        "username":"USERNAME",
        "password":"PASSWORD"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response has the transaction ID, as well as the address the change went to.

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "txID": "2exafyvRNSE5ehwjhafBVt6CTntot7DFjsZNcZ54GSxBbVLcCm",
        "changeAddr": "P-avax103y30cxeulkjfe3kwfnpt432ylmnxux8r73r8u"
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

We can check the transaction's status by calling `platform.getTxStatus`:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getTxStatus",
    "params": {
        "txID":"2exafyvRNSE5ehwjhafBVt6CTntot7DFjsZNcZ54GSxBbVLcCm"
    },
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The status should be `Committed`, meaning the transaction was successful. We can call [`platform.getPendingValidators`](../api/platform.md#platformgetpendingvalidators) and see that the node is now in the pending validator set for the Primary Network. This time, we specify the subnet ID:

```json
curl -X POST --data '{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "method": "platform.getPendingValidators",
    "params": {"subnetID":"nTd2Q2nTLp8M9qv2VKHMdvYhtNWX7aTPa4SMEK7x7yJHbcWvr"},
    "id": 1
}' -H 'content-type:application/json;' 127.0.0.1:9650/ext/P
```

The response should include the node we just added:

```json
{
    "jsonrpc": "2.0",
    "result": {
        "validators": [
            {
                "nodeID": "NodeID-LMUue2dBBRWdDbPL4Yx47Ps31noeewJji",
                "startTime":1584042912,
                "endTime":1584121156,
                "weight": "1"
            }
        ]
    },
    "id": 1
}
```

When the time reaches `1584042912`, this node will start validating this Subnet.
When it reaches `1584121156`, this node will stop validating this Subnet.


### Whitelisting the Subnet

Now that the node has been added as a validator of the subnet, let's add it to the whitelist of subnets. The whitelist prevents the node from validating a subnet unintentionally.

To whitelist the subnet, restart the node and add the parameter `--whitelisted-subnets` with a comma separated list of subnets to whitelist.

The full command is:

`./build/avalanchego --whitelisted-subnets=nTd2Q2nTLp8M9qv2VKHMdvYhtNWX7aTPa4SMEK7x7yJHbcWvr`
